gt right now is my favorite package for building pretty data display tables. It offers a bunch
of tools to help you get your display tables exactly the way you want them to look. One thing
I love is the calls merge helper function. It lets you combine multiple values into a single table
column. For example, suppose we have a data set with separate variables for latitude and longitude
but we want to combine them into a coordinates column in our display table. Calls merge lets us
select the columns to merge and define how they should look when combined. Now look at the station
name and caption variables. Suppose we want to combine these two into a single column and clean
up those missing values. Here we add the station caption only if the caption exists. I don't know
about you but before gt I found myself using dplyr's mutate function to handle these kind of
column merging actions. But that's not right. You often have to convert numeric factor or date time
values into text and doing so you lose information like order and things can get weird fast. These
gt helper functions help you avoid these.